Story Recapped here. Today I'm
going to explain a fantasy,
horror, and thriller film called "The Heretics."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Amid a cult ritual, Gloria is surrounded
by masked individuals under a locust moon.
All of them chant in unison
before taking their own lives.
However, Gloria wakes up and realizes that it
is a nightmare of what happened five years ago.
She has been a victim of abduction
for that purpose, but she escaped.
Her mother, Ruth, rushes to Gloria's room to
comfort her scared and distressed daughter.
The following day, Gloria attends a
support group meeting at a local church.
Most of the members are victims of
traumatic events and abuse in the past.
One of them, Mary, shares her experience, but
Joan, Gloria's lover, interrupts her by saying
that God isn't real. The therapist reprimands
her and asks her to leave the group, which she
does. Gloria and Joan are both volunteers
in a shelter and work together with Kent.
After the session, Gloria and Joan end the night
in bed together. As her way of showing love,
Joan gives Gloria a bracelet and says she has
something special for their anniversary tomorrow.
According to Joan, the necklace will keep
her safe whenever they are not together.
While walking alone to her house, Gloria passes
by an old van which she finds suspicious.
A man from behind abducts her and
forces her inside the vehicle.
Gloria gains consciousness and sees that she
is chained. While her abductor is busy driving,
she tries to retrieve her bag quietly
and manages to get a hold of her phone.
She contacts her mother, but she does not
pick up, so Ruth goes straight to voicemail.
The abductor notices it and immediately grabs the
phone before knocking her unconscious once again.
After some time, the abductor brings Gloria
to a secluded cabin with chains hanging from
her wrists and ankles. He lays her down to chain
her to the wall while she is still knocked out.
Gloria dreams of awakening from the
ritual with her body drenched in blood.
She walks in horror through the corpses
of the cultists who took their own lives,
but she wakes up. Not long after, the
abductor's identity is revealed—Thomas,
a man whose face is covered in scars and
other symbolic drawings around his body.
According to him, the cultists need Gloria before
tomorrow's sunrise, and after that, she will be
free. When Gloria asks why she has been abducted
again, Thomas says that she needs to be "saved."
Meanwhile, Joan calls Ruth after not seeing
Gloria in the shelter where they volunteer.
Ruth runs to Gloria's room to check and is
in shock to not see her daughter around. When
she rushes back to the phone, she discovers the
voicemail from Gloria, making her worry even more.
Later that day, Ruth gets in touch with the
police and is interviewed by Officer Carter.
However, he claims that the police can
only do so much but wait for more leads.
It prompts Joan to organize a search
with other volunteers from the church.
Gloria lashes out at Thomas for the cult's
malpractices back in the cabin, claiming
that they ruined her life. Thomas says that
he has been a part of the cult his whole life,
and he even saw Gloria five years ago during the
ritual. After seeing her on that horrible night,
he decided that the cult was delusional, and it
had to be stopped. On the night of the sacrifice,
Thomas faked his death because he
stopped believing in the cult's purpose.
He adds that Gloria's abduction serves the purpose
of finishing what he started and saving her.
Later, Thomas takes a break outside and
finds Gloria unchained inside the cabin.
When he turns back, she sees her
standing behind him as if seducing him.
It turns out to be a false vision, and he
sees the real Gloria spitting out blood.
All the while, Joan tirelessly distributes flyers
around town, hopeful of Gloria's return. While
doing so, Joan puts a knife on a man who refuses
to look at Joan's flyer out of frustration.
Gloria's disappearance has spiraled
her into a state of panic and urgency.
Back in the cabin, Gloria sees the door open
wide, and a cloaked figure emerges from the dark.
The chains make her more helpless in the given
situation, leaving her no resort but to scream.
The figure approaches her, but it is just
a vision of one of the cult members. Thomas
calms her down and tells her that the ordeal
will end once he protects Gloria until sunrise.
That evening, Joan receives a call from Ruth, who
asks her to come over. As she arrives, Officer
Carter questions her about Gloria's disappearance
with hints of suspicion. The officer brings out
the necklace found at the abduction site—the one
she gave Gloria. Moreover, the issue about Joan
pointing a knife at the uncooperative man is used
against her, as if she caused harm to Gloria. Ruth
takes Carter's side while he orders Joan to come
with him to the police station. In a fit of rage,
Joan takes out her murderous impulses on
Officer Carter and Ruth, killing both of them.
As the night grows, Thomas observes the cabin's
surroundings while tending to Gloria's needs.
She begs him to tell her what truly
happened on the night of the ritual.
Thomas informs Gloria that the cult intended to
welcome their dark lord Abaddon under the light
of the last locust moon five years ago. If so,
they will be reborn under the same locust moon
five years later. The cultists believe that
their lord is inside Gloria for the past five
years and has been growing stronger. They
would have finished the ritual that night,
and she would have been sacrificed
to bring Abaddon into the world.
He warns Gloria that not all cult members are
dead, meaning that they should be more careful.
Meanwhile, an angered Joan opens a secret doorway
in her house and kneels before a figure surrounded
by candles. She sincerely prays to it, claiming
it as her lord, revealing that she is part of the
cult. While asking for strength, she flogs herself
as punishment for losing Gloria. Afterward,
she sets out on a journey to find Gloria and
continue bringing her lord into the world.
As time passes, Gloria becomes weaker in
the cabin, so Thomas repeatedly comforts
her. As he speaks, Gloria sees an apparition
of Abaddon, causing her to be more unhinged.
Later, Thomas sees Gloria growing weird
holes in her shoulders and realizes the
truth to the cult's beliefs. He excuses himself
and walks away, disturbed by what he witnessed.
When he turns back, Thomas sees Gloria standing
in front of him in an attempt to be a subject of
seduction. She kisses him and pins him to
a chair, where they become more intimate.
Not long after, Gloria morphs
into a demon before vanishing.
Thomas is caught off-guard and checks on the real
Gloria, who has completely lost consciousness.
Gloria's crippling state urges Thomas to provide
her more comfort, so he transfers her to a bed.
When she tells him, she feels weird about herself,
and he is in denial of Abadoon's existence.
Back in the shelter, Joan gets mad at the
volunteers for calling it a day to find Gloria.
Kent approaches and introduces her to Mr. Vela,
who provides information about seeing a suspicious
van. He provides the tip that the abductor's
face is covered in scars and is headed east.
Instantly, Joan is certain of who the abductor
is and begins her journey of following his trail.
Meanwhile, Gloria says that she could not take it
any longer in the cabin and needs Joan beside her.
Upon hearing her name, Thomas reveals
that Joan, whose real name is Gwen,
is his sister. She is the cult's "chosen one"
and is the only one left to finish the ritual.
The scars and marks on his face are
all caused by his ruthless sister.
All the information is too much for Gloria
to handle, leaving her even more confused.
Out of nowhere, Thomas hears distant noises from
outside and comes out to check the surroundings.
While he is still preoccupied, an invisible
force unshackles Gloria from her chains,
allowing her to escape. She gets up and stumbles
upon a room filled with pictures of her and
Thomas' plot on her abduction. Suddenly, she
hears noises from behind and runs out of fear.
Gloria runs through the woods and is reunited
with Thomas, who comforts her. As they embrace,
Thomas notices her hair fall drastically
and decides to return her to the cabin.
At their arrival, Gloria's metamorphosis continues
as she spits chunks of blood and grows wings.
Thomas discovers her semi-transformation
and persuades her to be locked up.
However, Gloria refuses to be
chained and restrained once again,
claiming that Thomas is selfish
and wants to protect himself.
At the moment, Gloria is seemingly unrecognizable
because of her poor and evil-like appearance.
Meanwhile, Joan and Kent drive through a
dark road until they locate the vehicle used
in the abduction. Kent says that it would
be better to communicate with the police,
but she is hesitant to do so. Both of them
check the vehicle's interior from the outside,
and out of nowhere, the sadistic
Joan stabs Kent and leaves him.
With Gloria's progressing inhuman appearance,
random flashbacks on the night of her abduction
resurface. Upon realizing that
the demon is already inside her,
Thomas holds Gloria at gunpoint, saying that
dark forces overtake her. On the other hand,
Gloria starts losing herself mentally
and begins to speak in Abaddon's voice.
She says that Thomas will be killed
before his soul is brought to hell.
He takes the gun away from her face and gets
a flashback of him being burned by Joan.
Thomas rushes outside while he continues to
remember the bitter past. All his sufferings
are behind his sister's doing, whom he reunites
with again, in the most unfortunate situation.
Gloria wakes up surrounded by candles while
she is tied to a chair. In a comforting voice,
Joan tells her that everything is going to
be okay. Despite Gloria's pleas, Joan pays
her no mind and even taunts her about her physical
degeneration. Shortly after, she puts the necklace
around Gloria's neck, planning to kill her without
remorse. Gloria is heartbroken, to say the least;
Joan's surprise for their anniversary
turned out to be her untimely suffering.
Meanwhile, Thomas wakes up inside the
cabin, but Joan has locked him from outside.
He peeks through the door and persuades Joan into
stopping her sadistic ways, but to no avail. The
siblings continue to talk about their childhood,
revealing that their parents owned the cabin.
Determined to stop the cult's inhumane practices,
Thomas rips out the planks of woods one by one to
escape captivity. He eventually escapes
and plans to stop his sister right away.
While Joan chants an incantation for Gloria around
the pentagram, visions of other cultists appear
behind their leader. Gloria is helpless and is
gradually taking the form of Abaddon while the
occult ritual progresses. Thomas breaks the door
with an ax to stop the ceremony, but he ends up in
an empty field. There, he sees Gloria approaching
her, letting him know how beautiful the place is.
Abundant plants fill the land as the skies
are similar to that of a beautiful sunset.
Once again, Gloria seduces him, but he
soon realizes that it isn't her after all.
He breaks free from the illusion and
slashes the ax into Joan's back in reality.
However, Joan survives the hit
while Gloria becomes more powerful.
She continues reciting the ritual, putting
Gloria in total control of the situation.
Thomas tries to stop Joan countless times but
fails every time, in accordance with Gloria's
powers. As the ritual nears its end, Abaddon
emerges from outside, walking toward Gloria.
His evil figure overpowers the whole room, but
Thomas tirelessly tries to stop the ritual.
Without a choice, he kills his sister with a
shovel, causing Abaddon to shriek and disappear.
After some time, Thomas tearfully approaches
Gloria's seemingly lifeless body and brings it
outside. As the sun is about to rise, Gloria
opens her eyes before saying, "it's over."
Gloria suddenly attacks him and reminds the
poor man that his soul will burn for eternity.
In his dying breath, he witnesses
Gloria take a demon's full form.
Not everything is as it seems,
and Gloria found out the hard way.
The woman whom she trusted her life was
the very person who wanted to take it away,
and the man who abducted her ended up being her
savior. But ultimately, Thomas pledged his life
to save Gloria, failed horribly and this cost him
his life, bringing this story to a grim close.